1) How to Print duplicate characters from String?
For example, if String is "Java" then the program should print "a". 
Bonus points if your program is robust and handles different kinds of 
input e.g. String without duplicate, null or empty String etc. 
Bonus points if you also write unit tests for normal and edge cases.


2) How to check if two Strings are anagrams of each other?
example,  Army and Mary are an anagram of each other.


3) How to program to print first non repeated character from String? 
for example, if given String is "Morning" then it should print "M". 
This question demonstrates the efficient use of the hash table data structure.


4) How to reverse String in Java using Iteration and Recursion?

5) How to check if a String contains only digits?

6) How to find duplicate characters in a String?
For example, if given String is "Programming" then your program should print
g : 2
r : 2
m : 2

7) How to count a number of vowels and consonants in a String?
For example, if the input is "Java" then your program should print "2 vowels and 2 consonants".

8) How to count the occurrence of a given character in String?
for example, if input String is "Java" and given character is 'a' then it
 should return 2. Bonus point if you handle case, null and empty 
String and come up with unit tests.


9) How to convert numeric String to an int?
For example, if you pass "67263" to the program then it should return 67263.

10) How to replace each given character to other e.g. blank with %20?
example, if the input is "Java is Great" and asked to replace space with %20 then it should be "Java%20is%20Great".

11) How to find all permutations of String?
for example, if the input is "xyz" then it should print "xyz", "yzx", "zxy", "xzy", "yxz", "zyx"

12) How to reverse words in a sentence without using a library method?
for example if the input is "Java is best programming language", the output should be "language programming best is Java".

13) How to check if String is Palindrome? 


14) How to remove duplicate characters from String?







